#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass classicthesis
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language american
\language_package default
\inputencoding utf8
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 0
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type numerical
\biblio_style plainnat
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 2
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
begingroup
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
let
\backslash
clearpage
\backslash
relax
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
let
\backslash
cleardoublepage
\backslash
relax
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
pdfbookmark[1]{Abstract}{Abstract}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter*
Abstract
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The concept or property of symmetry can be observed in a variety of contexts:
 in an image, a construction, etc.
 In this thesis we will restrict the domain of symmetry to automatic reasoning.
 If you could identify the symmetries of a problem, one could use that informati
on to reduce the difficulty analizing in detail only one of these simmetric
 cases and generalitazing after.
 This is exactly what we try to do when we use the simmetries of a problem
 in automatic reasoning.
 The presence of simmetries in subspaces that do not contain any solutions
 can be used by our algorithm, guiding it to search for solutions somewhere
 else.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In particular, we will focus on detecting simmetries in description logics.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
First, we will elaborate the theorical basis for the main concepts and explain
 how these concepts are related to each other.
 We will create a sintactic and semantic bridge between description logics
 and modal logic, basing it on the work from 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "Areces"

\end_inset

.
 Then, given that in 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "Orbe:2014aa"

\end_inset

 the simmetries detection problem was widly studied for modal logics, we
 will use the mentioned bridge to transfer all the necessary theorical results
 for detecting simmetries in modal logics to description logics.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We also define an algorithm for constructing a graph given a formula in
 modal CNF.
 It has been prooved that this algorithm generates a graph such that its
 automorphism have a one-to-one mapping with the formula's simmetries.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Later, we describe the modules implemented for detecting simmetries in descripti
on logics and study each one of these modules through a simple example.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Finally, we test our tool against ontologies obtained from the web that
 are used in reasoners, and present an analisis about the results: execution
 times, ontologies size, graphs size and number of simmetries detected.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset VSpace vfill
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
endgroup
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
